application/templates/pages/accessibility-statement.md, before:

# Accessibility statement

This accessibility statement applies to the planning.data.gov.uk website: <https://www.planning.data.gov.uk>.

This website is run by the Digital Land team in the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities

We are always working to improve our website and want as many people as possible to be able to access and use it. For example, that means you should be able to:

- change colours, contrast levels and fonts
- zoom in up to 300% without the text spilling off the screen
- navigate most of the website using just a keyboard
- navigate most of the website using speech recognition software
- listen to most of the website using a screen reader (including the most recent versions of JAWS, NVDA and VoiceOver)

We've also made the website text as simple as possible to understand. [ AbilityNet](https://mcmw.abilitynet.org.uk/) has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.

## How accessible this website is

We have performed an internal accessibility audit following the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines Evaluation Method (WCAG-EM)

On 50 of 50 WCAG 2.1 AA Success Criteria, at the time of writing this website:

- 29 Passed
- 6 Failed
- 1 Cannot tell
- 14 Not present
- 0 Not checked

### Where we failed web content accessibility guidelines

#### 1.1.1: Non-text Content

Aspects of the National Map show do not have a text alternative such as street labels and locations.

#### 1.3.2: Meaningful Sequence

Some pages need heading levels and reading order adjusted to make comprehension and way finding easier

#### 1.3.3: Sensory Characteristics

National Map of planning data currently relies on the ability to see shapes, colours and visual locations. A 'non map alternative' is required for users unable able perceive content visually.

#### 1.4.1: Use of Color

The National Map of Planning Data currently relies on colour to distinguish geographic shapes from one dataset to another.

#### 1.4.3: Contrast (Minimum)

The National Map of Planning Data fails colour contrast for map features and data layers. Text labels for locations can become difficult to read and are not a contrast ratio of at least 4.5:1.

#### 1.4.11: Non-text Contrast

The National Map of Planning has shapes and areas of colour that when overlayed do not have sufficient contrast.

#### 2.1.1: Keyboard

Features of the National Map of Planning Data are not able to be access via a keyboard.

#### 3.2.2: On Input

Search functionality on the [dataset index](/dataset/) and [organisation index](/organisation/) performs an update to page content by filtering a list of links. It is a change of content that could be a 'change of context' because the viewport changes height and potentially scroll position as the number list items increases or decreases.

#### 3.3.1: Error Identification

In the 'search' page. There is functionality to search for a dataset to facet search results by. However there is no visual feedback if the user types a search with no results, the content is visually hidden.

### What we plan to do next

We will outsource an accessibility audit on this website in the near future and fix as many of the issues that are found as possible.

## How to request content in an accessible format

If you need information in a different format, for example large print or accessible PDF, email <digitalland@levellingup.gov.uk> and tell us:

- the web address (URL) of the content
- your name and email address
- the format you need

We'll consider your request and get back to you in 21 days.

## Reporting accessibility problems with this website

If you find any problems that are not listed on this page, or you think we're not meeting the accessibility requirements, please email <digitalland@levellingup.gov.uk> so that we can fix the issue.

## Enforcement procedure

The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No. 2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the 'accessibility regulations'). If you're not happy with how we respond to your complaint, [contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS)](https://www.equalityadvisoryservice.com/).

## Technical information about this website's accessibility

The Digital Land team is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No. 2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.

### Compliance status

This website is partially compliant with the [Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/) AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed above.

## Preparation of this accessibility statement

This statement was prepared on 08 September 2020. It was last reviewed on 08 July 2022.

This website was last tested on 08 July 2022. The test was carried out by the Digital Land team.

Commit message:

Change references to 'digital land' to 'planning data' - Feature/fix name (#87)
* Changes references from Digital Land

changes to 'Planning Data' for now.

* update md files content with change of name

application/templates/pages/accessibility-statement.md, after:

# Accessibility statement

This accessibility statement applies to the planning.data.gov.uk website: <https://www.planning.data.gov.uk>.

This website is run by the Planning Data team in the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities

We are always working to improve our website and want as many people as possible to be able to access and use it. For example, that means you should be able to:

- change colours, contrast levels and fonts
- zoom in up to 300% without the text spilling off the screen
- navigate most of the website using just a keyboard
- navigate most of the website using speech recognition software
- listen to most of the website using a screen reader (including the most recent versions of JAWS, NVDA and VoiceOver)

We've also made the website text as simple as possible to understand. [ AbilityNet](https://mcmw.abilitynet.org.uk/) has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.

## How accessible this website is

We have performed an internal accessibility audit following the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines Evaluation Method (WCAG-EM)

On 50 of 50 WCAG 2.1 AA Success Criteria, at the time of writing this website:

- 29 Passed
- 6 Failed
- 1 Cannot tell
- 14 Not present
- 0 Not checked

### Where we failed web content accessibility guidelines

#### 1.1.1: Non-text Content

Aspects of the National Map show do not have a text alternative such as street labels and locations.

#### 1.3.2: Meaningful Sequence

Some pages need heading levels and reading order adjusted to make comprehension and way finding easier

#### 1.3.3: Sensory Characteristics

National Map of planning data currently relies on the ability to see shapes, colours and visual locations. A 'non map alternative' is required for users unable able perceive content visually.

#### 1.4.1: Use of Color

The National Map of Planning Data currently relies on colour to distinguish geographic shapes from one dataset to another.

#### 1.4.3: Contrast (Minimum)

The National Map of Planning Data fails colour contrast for map features and data layers. Text labels for locations can become difficult to read and are not a contrast ratio of at least 4.5:1.

#### 1.4.11: Non-text Contrast

The National Map of Planning has shapes and areas of colour that when overlayed do not have sufficient contrast.

#### 2.1.1: Keyboard

Features of the National Map of Planning Data are not able to be access via a keyboard.

#### 3.2.2: On Input

Search functionality on the [dataset index](/dataset/) and [organisation index](/organisation/) performs an update to page content by filtering a list of links. It is a change of content that could be a 'change of context' because the viewport changes height and potentially scroll position as the number list items increases or decreases.

#### 3.3.1: Error Identification

In the 'search' page. There is functionality to search for a dataset to facet search results by. However there is no visual feedback if the user types a search with no results, the content is visually hidden.

### What we plan to do next

We will outsource an accessibility audit on this website in the near future and fix as many of the issues that are found as possible.

## How to request content in an accessible format

If you need information in a different format, for example large print or accessible PDF, email <digitalland@levellingup.gov.uk> and tell us:

- the web address (URL) of the content
- your name and email address
- the format you need

We'll consider your request and get back to you in 21 days.

## Reporting accessibility problems with this website

If you find any problems that are not listed on this page, or you think we're not meeting the accessibility requirements, please email <digitalland@levellingup.gov.uk> so that we can fix the issue.

## Enforcement procedure

The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No. 2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the 'accessibility regulations'). If you're not happy with how we respond to your complaint, [contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS)](https://www.equalityadvisoryservice.com/).

## Technical information about this website's accessibility

The Planning Data team is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No. 2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.

### Compliance status

This website is partially compliant with the [Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/) AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed above.

## Preparation of this accessibility statement

This statement was prepared on 08 September 2020. It was last reviewed on 08 July 2022.

This website was last tested on 08 July 2022. The test was carried out by the Planning Data team.
