application/templates/pages/guidance/publish-data-on-your-website.md, before:

All data needs to be public on a website your planning authority controls. 

We take the latest data from there every day.

Why publish on your website
----------------

Your planning authority will always be the source of truth about your data.

People using [find planning and housing data in England](https://www.planning.data.gov.uk/) will see a link to your webpage.

Create your webpage
--------------------

The webpage must include, for each dataset:

- a link to the data
- a summary of what the data is about
- a statement that the data is provided under the [Open Government Licence](https://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3/)


### Example webpage

#### About the data

This dataset shows the locations of conservation areas. Conservation areas are designated to safeguard areas of special architectural and historic interest, the character and appearance of which it is desirable to preserve and enhance. 

#### Data

[Conservation areas (CSV, 188KB)](https://publish.planning.data.gov.uk/public/downloadable/conservationArea.csv)

#### Licensing

The data is provided under the [Open Government Licence](https://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3/).

Tell us about the webpage
-------------

Send an email to [digitalland@levellingup.gov.uk](mailto:digitalland@levellingup.gov.uk).

The email must include:

- your full name
- the name of your planning authority
- a link to the webpage
- a link to the data file

Commit message:

Improving intro, removing line about site showing sources and other tweaks after team reviews

application/templates/pages/guidance/publish-data-on-your-website.md, after:

Your data must be on a URL the public can access. We take the latest data from there every day.

You must link to that URL from a webpage about the data. This needs to be on your official planning authority website, usually ending in gov.uk.

Why publish on your website
----------------

Your planning authority will always be the source of truth about your data.

Create your webpage
--------------------

The webpage must include, for each dataset:

- a link to the data
- a summary of what the data is about
- a statement that the data is provided under the [Open Government Licence](https://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3/)


### Example webpage

#### About the data

This dataset shows the locations of conservation areas. Conservation areas are designated to safeguard areas of special architectural and historic interest, the character and appearance of which it is desirable to preserve and enhance. 

#### Data

[Conservation areas (CSV, 188KB)](https://publish.planning.data.gov.uk/public/downloadable/conservationArea.csv)

#### Licensing

The data is provided under the [Open Government Licence](https://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3/).

Tell us about the webpage
-------------

Send an email to [digitalland@levellingup.gov.uk](mailto:digitalland@levellingup.gov.uk).

The email must include:

- your full name
- the name of your planning authority
- a link to the webpage on your official planning authority website
- a link to the data URL
