application/templates/pages/guidance/specifications/article-4-direction.md, before:

There are 2 datasets you must provide for article 4 directions:

- [article 4 direction dataset](#{{ 'article 4 direction dataset' | slugify }})
- [article 4 direction area dataset](#{{ 'Article 4 direction area' | slugify }})

Format
------

You can provide data in one of these formats:

-   CSV
-   GeoJSON
-   GML
-   Geopackage

For more information, see [how to provide your data](../how-to-provide-data).

---

## Article 4 direction dataset

This dataset is about article 4 directions. These are directions from local planning authorities to withdraw specified permitted development rights across a defined area.

The dataset must contain at least one entry (row) for each article 4 direction.
It must containing the following fields (columns):

### reference

A reference or ID for each article 4 direction that is:

- unique within your dataset
- permanent - it doesn’t change when the dataset is updated

If you don’t use a reference already, you will need to create one. This can be a short set of letters or numbers.
Example: `A4D1`

### name

The official name of the article 4 direction.

Example: `Old Market`

### description

Optional short description of the article 4 direction’s purpose.

Example: The railways arches should not be demolished or have their use changed from commercial to residential.

### document-url

The URL of an authoritative order or notice designating the article 4 direction.

Example: `http://www.LPAwebsite.org.uk/article4direction1.pdf`

### documentation-url

The URL of the webpage citing the document.

Each document should be linked to on a documentation webpage that includes a short description of the data. The website URL should be unique for each article 4 direction, either by creating a separate page or a separate anchor (fragment identifier) for each one.

Example: `http://www.LPAwebsite.org.uk/data#article4direction`

### notes

Optional text on how this data was made or produced, or how it can be interpreted.

### start-date

The date that the article 4 direction came into force, written in `YYYY-MM-DD` format.

Example: `1984-03-28`

### end-date

If applicable, the date that the article 4 direction was no longer in effect, written in `YYYY-MM-DD` format. If this does not apply, leave the cell blank.
Example: `1999-01-20`

### entry-date

The date this dataset was created or last updated, written in `YYYY-MM-DD` format.
Example: 2022-12-20

---

## Article 4 direction area

This dataset is about the geometry that each article 4 direction refers to.

The dataset must contain at least one entry (row) for each article 4 direction area.

It must containing the following fields (columns):

### reference

A reference or ID for each article 4 direction area that is:

- unique within your dataset
- permanent - it doesn’t change when the dataset is updated

If you don’t use a reference already, you will need to create one. This can be a short set of letters or numbers.

Example: `A4Da1`

### name

The official name of the article 4 direction.
Example: Old Market

### geometry

The boundary for the article 4 direction area as a single polygon or multipolygon value. Points must be in the WGS84 coordinate reference system.

This should be provided as well-known text (WKT).

Example: `MULTIPOLYGON (((1.188829 51.23478,1.188376 51.234909,1.188381 51.234917,1.187912 51.235022...`

### uprn

If the geometry is the boundary of a building, you can provide the Unique Property Reference Number (UPRN). Find the UPRN on GeoPlace.

If you provide the UPRN, you must also provide the address text.

### address-text

If the geometry is the boundary of a building, you can provide the address of the article 4 direction, written as text.

If you provide the address text, you must also provide the UPRN.

Example: `100 High Street, Bath`

### article-4-direction

The reference for the article 4 direction used in the article 4 direction dataset.

Example: `A4D1`

### article-4-direction-rules

The list of references of article 4 direction rules which apply to this area, as found in the [article 4 direction rule dataset](https://www.planning.data.gov.uk/dataset/article-4-direction-rule). In many cases the article 4 direction rule is a reference to the permitted development right removed by the rule.

If the rule you need does not exist in our list, please contact [digitalland@levellingup.gov.uk](digitalland@levellingup.gov.uk).

Example: `P3CD;P3CM;P11CB`

### notes

Optional text on how this data was made or produced, or how it can be interpreted.

### start-date

The date that the article 4 direction came into force, written in `YYYY-MM-DD` format.

Example: `1984-03-28`

### end-date

If applicable, the date that the article 4 direction was no longer in effect, written in `YYYY-MM-DD` format. If this does not apply, leave the cell blank.
Example: `1999-01-20`

### entry-date

The date this dataset was created or last updated, written in `YYYY-MM-DD` format.

Example: `2022-12-20`

---

Go to [how to provide your data](../how-to-provide-data).

Commit message:

Clarify article 4 Geometry field formats other than CSV

application/templates/pages/guidance/specifications/article-4-direction.md, after:

There are 2 datasets you must provide for article 4 directions:

- [article 4 direction dataset](#{{ 'article 4 direction dataset' | slugify }})
- [article 4 direction area dataset](#{{ 'Article 4 direction area' | slugify }})

Format
------

You can provide data in one of these formats:

-   CSV
-   GeoJSON
-   GML
-   Geopackage

For more information, see [how to provide your data](../how-to-provide-data).

---

## Article 4 direction dataset

This dataset is about article 4 directions. These are directions from local planning authorities to withdraw specified permitted development rights across a defined area.

The dataset must contain at least one entry (row) for each article 4 direction.
It must containing the following fields (columns):

### reference

A reference or ID for each article 4 direction that is:

- unique within your dataset
- permanent - it doesn’t change when the dataset is updated

If you don’t use a reference already, you will need to create one. This can be a short set of letters or numbers.
Example: `A4D1`

### name

The official name of the article 4 direction.

Example: `Old Market`

### description

Optional short description of the article 4 direction’s purpose.

Example: The railways arches should not be demolished or have their use changed from commercial to residential.

### document-url

The URL of an authoritative order or notice designating the article 4 direction.

Example: `http://www.LPAwebsite.org.uk/article4direction1.pdf`

### documentation-url

The URL of the webpage citing the document.

Each document should be linked to on a documentation webpage that includes a short description of the data. The website URL should be unique for each article 4 direction, either by creating a separate page or a separate anchor (fragment identifier) for each one.

Example: `http://www.LPAwebsite.org.uk/data#article4direction`

### notes

Optional text on how this data was made or produced, or how it can be interpreted.

### start-date

The date that the article 4 direction came into force, written in `YYYY-MM-DD` format.

Example: `1984-03-28`

### end-date

If applicable, the date that the article 4 direction was no longer in effect, written in `YYYY-MM-DD` format. If this does not apply, leave the cell blank.
Example: `1999-01-20`

### entry-date

The date this dataset was created or last updated, written in `YYYY-MM-DD` format.
Example: 2022-12-20

---

## Article 4 direction area

This dataset is about the geometry that each article 4 direction refers to.

The dataset must contain at least one entry (row) for each article 4 direction area.

It must containing the following fields (columns):

### reference

A reference or ID for each article 4 direction area that is:

- unique within your dataset
- permanent - it doesn’t change when the dataset is updated

If you don’t use a reference already, you will need to create one. This can be a short set of letters or numbers.

Example: `A4Da1`

### name

The official name of the article 4 direction.
Example: Old Market

### geometry

The boundary for the article 4 direction area as a single polygon or multipolygon value. Points must be in the WGS84 coordinate reference system.

If you’re providing geometry in a CSV, geometry should be in well-known text (WKT).

Example: `MULTIPOLYGON (((1.188829 51.23478,1.188376 51.234909,1.188381 51.234917,1.187912 51.235022...`

If you’re providing geometry in a GeoJSON, GML or Geopackage, use the associated geometry format.

### uprn

If the geometry is the boundary of a building, you can provide the Unique Property Reference Number (UPRN). Find the UPRN on GeoPlace.

If you provide the UPRN, you must also provide the address text.

### address-text

If the geometry is the boundary of a building, you can provide the address of the article 4 direction, written as text.

If you provide the address text, you must also provide the UPRN.

Example: `100 High Street, Bath`

### article-4-direction

The reference for the article 4 direction used in the article 4 direction dataset.

Example: `A4D1`

### article-4-direction-rules

The list of references of article 4 direction rules which apply to this area, as found in the [article 4 direction rule dataset](https://www.planning.data.gov.uk/dataset/article-4-direction-rule). In many cases the article 4 direction rule is a reference to the permitted development right removed by the rule.

If the rule you need does not exist in our list, please contact [digitalland@levellingup.gov.uk](digitalland@levellingup.gov.uk).

Example: `P3CD;P3CM;P11CB`

### notes

Optional text on how this data was made or produced, or how it can be interpreted.

### start-date

The date that the article 4 direction came into force, written in `YYYY-MM-DD` format.

Example: `1984-03-28`

### end-date

If applicable, the date that the article 4 direction was no longer in effect, written in `YYYY-MM-DD` format. If this does not apply, leave the cell blank.
Example: `1999-01-20`

### entry-date

The date this dataset was created or last updated, written in `YYYY-MM-DD` format.

Example: `2022-12-20`

---

Go to [how to provide your data](../how-to-provide-data).
